docs/reporters/SarifReporter.md, before:

---
title: SARIF Reporter for MegaLinter
description: Generates SAST results in SARIF format within a file named mega-linter-report.sarif, located in report folder
---
# SARIF Reporter (beta)

Generates a full execution log in SARIF format within a file named **mega-linter-report.sarif** , located in report folder.

Note: Only linters able to handle SARIF will provide output in the aggregated SARIF file.

This reporter **is deactivated by default**.

![Screenshot](../assets/images/SarifReporter_1.jpg)

![Screenshot](../assets/images/SarifReporter_2.jpg)

## Usage

Activate the reporter (`SARIF_REPORTER: true`) to generate JSON report file.

If you want GitHub to handle the SARIF file to display it in its UI, add the following step in your GitHub Action Workflow.

```yaml
- name: Upload MegaLinter scan results to GitHub Security tab
if: ${{ success() }} || ${{ failure() }}
uses: github/codeql-action/upload-sarif@v2
with:
    sarif_file: 'megalinter-reports/megalinter-report.sarif'
```

## Configuration

| Variable                 | Description                                                                                            | Default value              |
|--------------------------|--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|----------------------------|
| SARIF_REPORTER           | Activates/deactivates reporter                                                                         | `false`                    |
| SARIF_REPORTER_FILE_NAME | File name for SARIF report output file                                                                 | `mega-linter-report.sarif` |
| SARIF_REPORTER_LINTERS   | List of linter keys that will output SARIF (if not set, all SARIF compliant linters will output SARIF) | `[]`                       |

Commit message:

feat: add option to skip def_ws prefix in sarif reports
This PR is a suggestion for solving the use case
of needing to remove the DEFAULT_WORKSPACE from
the out put in the generated SARIF output.
(https://github.com/oxsecurity/megalinter/issues/2006).

It moves the SARIF logic to an earlier phase, to be handled
before the aggregate SARIF generation.
It replaces the prefix if the flag
SARIF_REPORTER_NORMALIZE_LINTERS_OUTPUT: true is set
(default: true).

Implementation is done by line parsing and replacing,
as a node traversal solution quickly grew due to
the many places in the sarif out put the uri can be found
(metris, relatedLocations, and so on), and the code
is much simpler this way to maintain.

Improvements and suggestions:
Could dumps and resulting json string be used in
a reliable way to line parse an json file? I didn't
find a good way.
Should the option be renamed to
SARIF_REPORTER_DISABLE_DEFAULT_WORKSPACE_IN_OUTPUT
or alike. As the pre existing normalization still happens?
(We don't change that pre existing behaviour in this PR,
only the DEFAULT_WORKSPACE prefix part).

Signed-off-by: Josef Andersson <josef.andersson@gmail.com>

docs/reporters/SarifReporter.md, after:

---
title: SARIF Reporter for MegaLinter
description: Generates SAST results in SARIF format within a file named mega-linter-report.sarif, located in report folder
---

# SARIF Reporter (beta)

Generates a full execution log in SARIF format within a file named **mega-linter-report.sarif** , located in report folder.

Note: Only linters able to handle SARIF will provide output in the aggregated SARIF file.

This reporter **is deactivated by default**.

![Screenshot](../assets/images/SarifReporter_1.jpg)

![Screenshot](../assets/images/SarifReporter_2.jpg)

## Usage

Activate the reporter (`SARIF_REPORTER: true`) to generate JSON report file.

If you want GitHub to handle the SARIF file to display it in its UI, add the following step in your GitHub Action Workflow.

```yaml
- name: Upload MegaLinter scan results to GitHub Security tab
if: ${{ success() }} || ${{ failure() }}
uses: github/codeql-action/upload-sarif@v2
with:
    sarif_file: 'megalinter-reports/megalinter-report.sarif'
```

## Configuration

| Variable                                | Description                                                                                                | Default value              |
|-----------------------------------------|------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|----------------------------|
| SARIF_REPORTER                          | Activates/deactivates reporter                                                                             | `false`                    |
| SARIF_REPORTER_NORMALIZE_LINTERS_OUTPUT | Remove DEFAULT_WORKSPACE prefix in SARIF-files, i.e. 'DEFAULT_WORKSPACE/src/main' would be 'src/main' etc. | `true`                     |
| SARIF_REPORTER_FILE_NAME                | File name for SARIF report output file                                                                     | `mega-linter-report.sarif` |
| SARIF_REPORTER_LINTERS                  | List of linter keys that will output SARIF (if not set, all SARIF compliant linters will output SARIF)     | `[]`                       |
